# hello-world
The first of many repositories

Namaskaram, greetings and salutations of all sorts!

At the time of typing this, I am a novice coder about to take his first plunge into this vast world of computing languages.
Much fascination and many a lofty vision I have at this time while knowing that the journey of a billion bits of code starts with a single 1... or a 0. :P

But really, I only have a certain grasp of what this is really going to entail. I am excited by the seemingly limitless prospect of coding and what I can do with it. My fascination with this stems from everything I've had to learn about computers after my laptop over-heated, crashed and had a failed hard drive for the first time. After tearing my laptop apart to repair it, my fascination with computers was set ablaze and I have gone on to repair dozens of computers and building a few as well. After this, my interest stemmed deeper, beyond the hardware. I never would have imagined I may be capable of approaching something like coding, but thanks to many online forums and fantastic youtube videos from coders from all over the world, the possibility has come more and more into light in a way I can digest and even consider approaching. I've worked on building websites in wordpress working as a full-time volunteer over the past 8 years with a non-profit. I did this and dove in clueless simply because it was needed and, well, I was willing to take the plunge and troubleshoot my way through it all with a little help from some friends. I found the process challenging and invigorating! After managing to pull countless pages and full functioning sites together with relatively pleasant interfaces due to my experience with the Adobe design programs (PS, AI, ID..), I started receivng encouragement to learn coding from some of my IT friends who were impressed by my abilities to troubleshoot certain bugs. In spite of this encouragement, I still saw it as this incredibly intimidating skillset that I thought would be beyond me. It amazes me how mysterious and intimidating coding seems to me even after getting used to some of the HTML basics. I only realized after watching videos from certain sites like code.org that I had never been exposed (having no computer science courses in my schooling days) and thus viewed the subject as alien and strange. I now realize the immense possibility and importance of people learning code to function within the modern world and the direction it is inevitably taking. I feel I have been setup with an opportunity to have a unique outlook on it as well. Personally, I will always hold yoga as the ultimate programming process for a human to Inner Engineering oneself. As there is an external science for creating wellbeing, there is an entire science for creating inner wellbeing. That is the science of yoga. I see coding reflected in this way. Yoga gave me the keys to create life and myself the way I want: balanced, joyful and full-fledged. I see that to become fluent in coding languages and comfortable with applying it will open the doors of engineering software in the external world to an extent that seems to only be limited by the scope of my own imagination. I have spent much of my life investing in the path of yoga and meditation to create or "program" myself the way that I wish to be in every aspect within myself. While that will always be the fundamental in my life, it has opened my eyes to see so much is possible in what I can do in the world if I wish to apply myself. As yoga has empowered me from within to create health, clarity and joy and above all an atmposphere of inclusiveness within, I aim to empower myself with coding and use it to create programs that cultivate inclusiveness and can help serve people in fulfilling their fundamental needs. My vision is that if the fundamental needs of people are taken care of, not just in my region or country, but across this entire planet, only then as an entire human race we can look beyond just survival and seek the deeper dimensions of life and who we are instead of only living lives on the surface until we inevitably reach our graves. As humans, we are empowered more than ever by technology today. If we don't harness it properly with a certain inclusiveness for all life, we will head rapidly towards destruction. My goal is to harness it to nourish and support life on this planet. Although I am not so naive to not realize that I will not necessarily see the fruits of what I strive to do with this empowerment and vision, I know I can help set the course. If a ship at sail even starts to turn by 1 degree, if it keeps turning, it's course and destination will invariably change and make a full turnaround. If the fundamental needs for human beings are taken care of, and they have the time and space to explore, they will seek something more and make a turn inwards within themselves. Although this is always at an individual level, if we can settle the survival issue for the entire species, we can then see a true revolution in a human species. Right now, some 795 million people in the world do not have enough food to lead a healthy active life. That's about one in nine people on earth. I have lived a life where my survival has been taken care of and I have been able to spend a significant amount of time and energy working upon myself with tools offered by the yogic sciences, particularly a form of yoga called Isha Yoga. This yoga has impacted me more than anything in life and I want to help make this possibility more available for everyone. I think one of the keys to that will be harnessing the technology we have at our fingertips to address these fundamental human needs of survival. This is why I want to learn to code. Today we live in a world where all the necessary resources are there to address every fundamental human need from health, food, education, you name it. The only thing that is missing is an inclusive consciousness. If anyone wants to make a step in that direction, I will always point to the tools that worked for me that are offered here: Isha.Sadhguru.org As I am seeing the importance of everyone learning how to code to work within the modern world, I would say it is most important that everyone takes time to learn how to code themselves. The thing is that it would be utterly crude of me to tell one of those 795 million hungry people to do yoga. They need to be fed, sheltered and cared for first. Once survival is taken care of, then no problem. A person can take the time to do these things. It's my wish that everyone human has that possibility within their lifetime. Most people are living haphazardly and it does not need to be that way anymore. The tools of yoga have become available widespread internationally at a rapid pace. This accessibility is due to none other than technology and, of course, those who program that technology: the coders. I'm sure I will work on a vast array of projects on my journey of becoming a coder and look forwad to it all. However, for anyone who does actually read this for whatever reason, I felt it was worth sharing in full honesty why I've gotten into coding and what is inspiring me underneath it all. So without further adieu, Hello World! :)

